
.
Now I'd like to point out that when we're
talking about the boxes, what we're
talking about is simply the way the idea
evolves.
It's got nothing to do with versus or
choruses or bridges or prechoruses, that
is, the boxes are simply a description of
the way ideas move.
So that the first box, the what's up, I
just like to know that first box could
easily be, 2 verses, a prechorus and a
chorus, all with the job of saying What's
up, I'd just like to know.
You know, the snow is falling once again
outside the window sill.
You know, whatever it is that you're, that
you're doing, and here at Starbucks I've
been sitting here, I just like to know, I
just like to know, I just like to know.
That could be the whole first box, verse,
verse, prechorus, chorus, whatever those
things are.
And then the second box would maybe be
verse, prechorus, chorus again.
Where we're saying, you know, the picture
that I that, that we took underneath the
willow tree, I just like to know, I just
like to know, I just like to know.
And then the third box could simply be a
two line bridge.
And then the chorus, I just like to know,
I just like to know.
So it's, it's certainly possible, for the
first box, which is the smallest box to
contain actually the most music and the
most words, it's certainly possible.
So again, that the boxes are simply a
description of the way that the ideas
move.
And that's a separate thing from song
form.
The first box could easily be, simply a
verse with the title at the end of it,
which we would call a verse refrain.
And the second one could, again, be a
verse with a title at the end of it, a
verse refrain, take a look at The Great
Pretender, for example.
And, and then we have the bridge and the
final verse, which could be the third box.
So that, again, song form is an
independent concept from the boxes, boxes
simply describe the way the ideas move.
But when we create, a song, we generally
create it in sections.
And, it's been convenient over the, over
the, decades, over the centuries, to, come
up with names for the various segments,
the various sections, that, that you
divide a song into.
And those sections are generally put
together in terms of what job they have to
do.
What is the function, of the various
sections?
And so, we have this section called verse,
and the basic job of the verse is to give
us the fundamental story or the
fundamental feeling, this sort of platform
that the song evolves from.
The, I'm waiting, I've been waiting here
at Starbucks for oh so many days, and now
that you've come to see me, I have, I,
I've got this to say, you look so happy,
happy, happy, each and every day.
And these things, don't be intimidated by
the fact that I can just riff on this and
it comes out so brilliantly, it's a gift
that I have, don't be intimidated.
I just like to know, I just like to know,
I just like to, To know.
So that, the function of the verses is to
just give the basic information, and then
we have this chorus idea and the chorus is
the thing, when there are choruses in a
song, that you'll repeat, over and over
again.
And because you're repeating it, twice,
three times, it's important that, that
chorus be able to grow.
That, that chorus state the central idea
of your song, and that it be able to take
on whatever information your verses are
giving it.
So we'll stop there for a second, and talk
about, chorus and what chorus means.
We got a couple of, couple of ways of
looking at chorus.
First is, a little tongue and cheek, but
here it is.
That, the word chorus means, many people
singing together.
Many people singing together, a chorus.
And so that the chorus, typically, the
many people singing together part, is the
part that should be the central idea.
And it should be, typically, and we'll
talk about this another time, it should be
typically fairly easy to sing and fairly
easy to remember.
The more complicated your chorus becomes,
the fewer people are singing along.
And if you, are the only one who knows the
words of your chorus, that's called a
soloist.
So, you know, again that's a bit tongue in
cheek, but, that's the whole, sort of,
tribal message that everybody joins in,
everybody sings together.
And we'll talk about that in detail at
another time.
Another way of looking at chorus, and I
think a more helpful way, is to go back
all the way to Greek drama.
To Sophocles, to Aristophanes, to
Aeschylus, where they had on stage, what
they called the Greek chorus, and that
chorus, for Sophocles, by the way, had 12
people in it.
Now, I'm not saying that the whole jury
system evolved from Sophocles, with 12
jurors.
Well, I did say it, didn't I?
So there we are, the ones who sit in
judgment, they ones who comment on what
has been happening on the facts of the
trial.
So that they sit in judgement, they
comment on it, they summarize it, they
take an angle on it, they sort through it,
and, and, and, and state it.
So, so that the chorus, is on a different
level of information than the sort of meat
and potatoes, the facts of the verse.
The chorus moves to a different level, so
that, the Greek chorus, there's, the Greek
chorus onstage, as the audience's
representative on stage.
And they are sometimes in interaction with
the characters in the play, but often they
are separate.
They are making comments on what's going
on, and the comments are available to the
audience, but sometimes, in fact many
times, not to the characters themselves.
So the chorus can be saying something
like, Oh, Oedipus, I know your mom is
cute, but this is not a good thing to do,
you could go blind, which he does.
And so that the, a, a, Oedipus completely
unaware of the chorus, speaking from that
other level, probably on a riser, and, and
so that the chorus is happening on a
different level of reality.
It moves to a new level, and that's a,
that's essentially what a chorus in a song
does.
The chorus doesn't typically advance the
plot.
The chorus doesn't typically change its
words.
It is a reiteration of the central idea of
the song as we move forward, so that's
verse, that's chorus.
And then we have this thing called a
bridge, and the bridge again, moves to a
different level of reality.
Nobody lives on the bridge, the bridges
job is to take you from Brooklyn to
Manhattan, or from Manhattan to Brooklyn.
People may live under the bridge, but they
don't live on the bridge.
So that the bridge is something that moves
you from landmass to another, so it also
happens on a different level of reality.
We'll take a closer look at those concepts
of verse, chorus, bridge.
And, by the way, this pre-chorus, is
actually just a little bridge that goes
from verse to chorus, and we'll see some
examples of that.
I will refer you to some examples of that,
but that's basically what happens inside
the boxes as you start putting the
sections of your song together.
And the sections fit inside the boxes, and
again, it's a very flexible thing.
That is to say, any, the first box could
easily contain simply one verse and one
chorus, second box, one verse and one
chorus, and that may be the entire song.
If you have a third box, maybe now you're
going to switch-up and have bridge,
chorus, so that you'll enter the chorus
from a different angle.
So that's very quick and easy song form,
and you can refer to that, when we get
back to the musical aspects of this, but
that's verse and chorus.
